We're speaking with Dr. John.
Simmons, is that how you pronounce your name, sir?
That's how I do.
Two M's.
S-I-M-M-O-N-S.
Do you use a middle initial?
Well, sometimes.
I use two.
You do, actually.
Which are?
J-S-G.
Yeah.
And you've been here how long?
Well, actually, in Oxford, for just 50 years.
How many, sir?
50.
50?
Just 50?
Yeah.
Well, that's just...
artistic exaggeration.
I came on the 1st of January, 1949.
That's 48 years ago.
And you've been involved in libraries?
Yes, well, I was a librarian before the war, and I started in 1932 in Birmingham University as a library boy.
They had a very good system that you worked 25 hours in the library.
It was a free college education at the university.
So I started that when I was 17, and I did have a bachelor's degree, I suppose, in 1937.
I took the degree and then started research on the history of printing in Russia, and that was interrupted by the war, and I was away from 1939 until 1945.
And they went back off to the war to the University of Ibrahim Birmingham as a sub-librarian, and was there for two years.
And then I was invited to come to Oxford because they were expanding their Russian and European studies, and they wanted a specialist librarian.
I'd already specialized, of course, in Russian at that time, to fill the collection.
retrospectively because very little had been done before and they saw it as an opportunity if they got someone who had a pretty free sort of job description who could initiate strengthening of the collections in Slavonic.
in the two main university libraries, the Bodleian, which is the general library, and the Taylorian, which is the specialist library for language and literature of Europe.
And they gave me a pretty free hand.
And so I traveled to Eastern Europe.
and also to Finland, where Helsinki, of course, has a collection.
And I arranged exchanges and bought material.
And then from 1953, after the day of Stalin, when it became possible to get to Russia, I went there in May.
He died in March.
And started an exchange
relation with the Lenin Library, what was then the Lenin Library.
And it was quite amusing because I was the first Western Libranian that they'd seen spectacularly.
And I came prepared with long lists of our desiderata, and also carrying the catalog of the Oxford University Press.
And I said, what do you want me?
And I'll show you what I want.
It'll work out.
And I mean, they trusted me, and I trusted them.
And it was just all a bit of a relationship.
So it was more of a symbiotic kind of a… Yes.
They want it.
current scientific material, of course, and we wanted to pull gaps in the 19th and early 20th century history languages.
So, of course, I extended the exchange to many other libraries, big libraries, and so on.
And then I extended it to
Well, that's very interesting, because you had a chance to see the whole library culture during the Soviet period in a certain way.
A very strong understanding of what it's like.
So, was there a sense of
in terms of book culture during the Soviet period, as Edward has suggested to me, that the real purpose, it seems, was political more than intellectual.
Do you agree with that or disagree with that?
Well, on the surface, it can to be political because it was more than their jobs were to take any other than the party's mind.
But there was always a sort of subculture
mainly of people of earlier generations to whom the traditions of Russian librarianship and the Russian book and so on were extremely dear.
And that remained in the rare book departments which were all the big libraries, usually found old ladies or old men who
under the surface remain the experts, whereas the officials, usually younger people, who were party members first.
But once you've penetrated that layer, you got to know who really mattered and who really knew.
And I've retained this correspondence under many of the messages
now in their 80s, some in their 90s.
Did they remain people of the book?
Oh, yes, very much.
There's a very strong tradition.
I mean, I speak mainly about Russia because I know that best.
But again, in Yugoslavia, in Serbia, scholars, very often people interested in Anglo-Serve relations.
whom I could help with material.
Czechoslovakia.
Of course, as you come more Western, it becomes more Western, if you see what I mean.
But the Russian book culture, and I think the Slavic book culture in general,
never died, because it's essentially something that is built on precedent.
I mean, the book is essentially a monument that remains from generation to generation.
I mean, that's the essence of the life, of course, is the place where the wisdom of the past is maintained.
And one other factor which is remarkable in...
in Russia, I noticed, is the extraordinary interest in the personal library at that period, which was pretty grim in the fifties.
The personal library was the great place for the expression of personality.
I'm amazed that the personal libraries were allowed to flourish during that period.
Well, I've seen, I mean, enormous libraries, and Berkhof, for example, who Naomi may know, P. N. Berkhof, who wrote a history of Soviet bibliography, he had a library of over $30,000.
I mean, his flack, he had a
It was absolutely with books.
And another man, B.S.
Podnowski, he too went to see him, and his desk was piled high with books on the floor.
He had been the editor of Knies and I guess in the very early years after the revolution.
and he maintained high standards in book culture.
And these were his books, his personal books?
His books, yes.
I mean, I saw on the shelves books that technically didn't exist.
Could you explain that?
What do you mean technically didn't exist?
Well, they were prescribed.
Copies had been ordered to be destroyed or put into special
collections which were not available for public.
They called them, how is your Russian money?
That's a disadvantage, I may say.
But they called them living corpses.
Oh, that's great.
How would you just say that in Russian?
Living corpses.
I love that.
But there's no doubt that, you see, the book was an expression of culture, of personality.
It was a thing you could buy throughout the Soviet period.
One couldn't buy everything, but, I mean, if you wanted Tolstoy, if you wanted Pushkin, if you wanted Germantr, they were all there, and they were all validity.
And...
It was one of the main things.
I mean, it was like music again.
It was a conflict in Russia.
It was an emotional presence.
It was an expression of personality that existed only under the greatest of pressure.
Were these so-called living corpses?
Were they available only on the black market, so to speak, or through clandestine sources?
Well, in general, they were hand to hand.
I mean, there was people who had been concerned with libraries or with publishing or with national bibliography, that kind of thing.
They would have tended to acquire these books.
And there was, I think, certainly in the 20s, there was extremely lively societies of book novelists, I mean, in Leningrad, particularly strong, very large collections of ex-libris, for you to know.
They produced almanacs in an edition of 300 copies, you know, numbered copies.
Somehow they managed to do it.
Of course, after the new economic policy of 1921 and until the clampdown in, I suppose, the early 30s, private publishing was possible.
And there were a very large number of limited editions.
produced during that time.
And the book art, the illustration, they had brilliant engravers.
But it was done under the external pressure that was genuinely accepted to me.
That is fascinating, isn't it?
Another thing that Edward had suggested to me
I'm so interested in the library as a vehicle of retaining and passing on memory from your history and your culture.
And of course, as it has been suggested during the Soviet period, there was an attempt to more or less consolidate all these different national cultures throughout the Soviet period.
And he said there was the creation of these emigre libraries outside of the Soviet Union, where materials were either surreptitiously brought out of the Soviet Union.
You had these libraries set up in New York or wherever.
The best known, I suppose, was the Bibliothèque Turgenev in Paris, which I think the journals actually stole during the war.
And it was only... There is literature about it, but I don't know anything in English or in French.
There are certainly articles in Russian about it.
Bibliothèque Turgenev.
Yes.
It has a very fine collection.
was established, I suppose, in the 1880s.
And you'll find, of course, when you get Russian language, you'll get Russian language, because Russians are book-oriented.
So then books have always been
more than just politics during the czarist regime.
The problem of how to get things published, books weren't neutral, and the Russians have a very keen sense towards a culture which is essentially transmitted, has been transmitted until a few years ago, in the form of the printed book.
That's fascinating.
And the Bibliothèque Turgenev, it existed in Russia?
Before that, no.
And then it was more or less... No, no, no, it was established in France.
So it was established.
Because there was a large emigrant population in France before 1917.
I see.
It meant the left-wing emigrants.
And so they brought with them the books?
Yes, or they bought books, or they got books, or they smuggled books.
The revolutionaries were smuggling books into Russia, and the emigres were getting books out to Russia.
And how long did this exist?
Well, it existed up to the war, but as I say, I think you'll find that the Germans actually stowed, I agree.
But it was... During World War II.
During World War II, but it was returned, and I think it still functioned again.
If you're in Paris, you can go and see it.
That's fascinating.
Whether there was a similar library in New York, I don't know, but there was certainly the Ukrainians in New York who believe the active cultural center of the Ukrainian academy.
Apparently there are two Ukrainian libraries in New York.
Yes, you know.
Yes.
As you mentioned, you said they're very good.
There was an Aquanian Library up in Connecticut.
It is interesting that these people did bring with them, not only their memory, but they brought their books, the documents.
And, of course, they were extraordinarily keen on their culture.
I mean, the way to make people think about that culture is to present them.
I don't know precisely how I'm going to begin this chapter, but I think one way to get into it is this horrible situation that happened in Sarajevo just four and a half years ago, how in one night this library is targeted and destroyed with 1.2 million books.
The apparent purpose is if you're going to destroy a people and eradicate their culture, you have to destroy their books.
Well, the same thing with the Germans.
in November 1944 in Poland when they collected this many Polish manuscripts and early printed books and set fire to them.
I didn't know that.
In Poland?
Yes.
Ask any Pole about it.
I mean, the Great Stocks.
culture was done absolutely.
They were centralized in, I'm not sure whether it was a national library, but there's plenty of literature on this, and set farther.
I mean, there's no doubt that you see the printed word up to now has been the great repository of national culture.
I think it's
it is preserved and conveyed by means of a piece of book.
If you want to destroy, well particularly the poles, you'll always be under pressure from both boundaries and this made them
more sensitive about the value of their culture, intensely nationalistic, and really in Western Europe, the idea that a writer can be a political figure, a very political figure, that conception only exists, whereas in Poland it would be a writer without being a writer.
You were constantly reminded that you were under pressure.
Why did they specifically target the pole, do you think?
Well, I think there's a natural antipathy between the Germans and Poles.
You see, there was all the struggle about East Germany and Poles.
I mean, you'll find all these towns have got...
a Polish form and a German form.
Well, that is immediately significant, that there are cultural tensions.
The worst example is Lvov in Malaysia, where it has six names.
Now, what does this mean?
Lvov, it's the English form, it's the only thing you'll read.
You've got Le Vif, which is the Polish form.
You've got Le Wolf, which is the Polish form.
You've got Lemberg, which is the German form.
And the British Museum used to solve the problem by calling it Leopolis.
But it's highly significant if you've got different forms of names.
Pozen, Poznan, for example.
Stettin, Szczecin, Danzig.
This immediately is extremely significant.
There's a cultural clash there.
Now, paradoxically, when you think that the Nazis were destroying Jews, and yet there were indications they were going to create a museum.
I wonder why... I don't know how serious that was, whether it was just simply a way of justifying the collection of valuable objects.
It would almost be like a museum of an extinct species, so to speak, and it would have been a curiosity.
But again, you see, it is cultural murder.
It is.
Of course, in this case, they're killing the people and retaining evidence of their existence, but as a curiosity.
Do you have any doubt if, God forbid, had the Nazis been successful against Great Britain during the war, that they would have tried a similar thing?
Do you think English...
Oh, no, they would have been.
I mean, I've seen the battle orders for the invasion, and all bales between 16 and 65 were to be exported to Germany.
Under quite a possible task, because I mean, there are billions and millions of them, but that was the idea.
So, I mean, there really would have been an eradication of culture.
Yes.
Yeah.
Do you have any thoughts as we approach?
We were very pleased to see in the library, I was very pleased to see that you do have card catalogs.
I haven't seen that the computers are taking over in there.
Are book acquisitions still an important element, an important aspect?
But of course, this library is rather specialized.
It's a college library, but it's open to all members of the university.
And all the other college libraries are primarily for their own students.
But as we've got no students,
Our library has been open to the university since the 1860s, and it's a specialist library in history and law.
We contain the card catalogue, but all our acquisitions go on to the computer.
There's a central computer network for all Oxford libraries below this.
And the general principle is that administration is decentralized, information is essential, so that people know what we want.
And of course, it is open to undergraduates and graduates concerned with history and law, but it's unique in that sense.
The libraries of other colleges are not specialized.
because they have students in all faculties.
We have no students at all.
I didn't know you had two students.
It's entirely a research establishment.
I see.
We've got 70 fellows, or perhaps 20 professors attached to the column, and then we've got senior research fellows and juniors.
There is a certain concentration on history and law, but many other fields are covered, particularly by the professors who chairs .
Do you have any attitude on this move towards computerization and the digitization of books?
Do you have any strong opinions on, in the United States, we have colleges that are deaccessioning books.
Yeah.
And I'm taking a look at that in this .
There are two important articles in New York.
I expect you've seen those.
I've got the name of the man.
The New York Review, or?
No, the New Yorker.
Oh, the New Yorker, Nicholson Baker.
Yes, that's right.
Yes.
And San Francisco, particularly.
Yes, that's right.
Yes, I was out in San Francisco, and that was .
Yeah, that's fascinating, but it's even more pervasive than that.
You even have it on the university level, which is, Baker was talking specifically about the San Francisco Public Library.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, he did two articles.
He did two, one within the last three or four months, actually, in October, which he was refiled.
Well, it's difficult to take a line on that, because the problem is the deliberation of publication.
I mean, in this country, we published 90,000 titles last year.
That's more than, I think, the U.S.
did.
Yeah.
Oh, yes, certainly.
That's amazing.
Yeah.
And we've got six copyright licenses.
Bodleian accessions, a mile and a half of Sherpas every year.
Wow.
I mean, it's going to blow up.
Do they have a depository?
Yes.
I've been to the one that Harvard made, but we lived, fortunately, just about 10 miles away.
No, I mean the problem of the Great Library, I think, is really serious.
I mean, within 10 years, they'll burst.
No doubt.
So you think it is inevitable that a lot of this will have to be?
Well, I think in practical terms, my solution would be to have a national archive of the book, which would be simply a resource.
And that would allow the six copyright libraries to work on a selective basis.
And that, of course, just exposes the problem, I mean.
They reckon a library doubles in size every 16 years.
Wow.
So there is a real problem, isn't there?
I'm glad I'm an excellent person.
Well, is there a lot of replication among the six libraries?
Well, yes.
They don't take everything now.
Oddly, for example, doesn't take
other than a few national and local newspapers, though they're entitled.
But the British Museum has to take a lot, because that is the legal deposit library.
If there's any law case involving books, it's the British Museum copy that has to be presented in court.
It's an archive.
Really?
Yeah.
But what it doesn't, I mean,
I don't know what proportion.
They probably accession about 60,000 or 70,000 books a year.
Wow.
So there is some sort of code or law on the books that says there must be at least one physical copy of everything, which is retained.
Yes.
The legal deposit copy, which is the British Library copy.
I mean, if you publish anything, you have...
a legal obligation to deposit one copy with the British Library.
And the other five copies that go to Oxford, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Wales, and believe it or not, Ireland, British College something, those are claimed on their behalf by an agent.
But the deposit copy you have to send to the British Library.
I don't know if we have a system like that.
The Library of Congress, but libraries like Harvard and California.
No, they don't have it.
But if they do it, it's strictly because they want to do it.
Harvard maintains a policy of
There is no such thing as a dead book at Harvard, which I love.
They do keep one, and they put it out to sleep out there.
I have also run into an attitude at the University of Michigan, for instance, where they have actually looked and they said, well, when's the last time this book was used?
If it hasn't been used in five years, they look at it.
I mean, they consider whether or not
we should keep, which to me is wrong-headed.
It may be needed tomorrow.
It may be needed 20 years from now.
But they're wondering if they can afford the luxury of doing that.
Of course, it does cost money to keep them.
And they call these books, what-if books.
What if somebody needs it, should we keep it?
And then at Columbia, they tell me now they have a category of medium-rare, kind of cute.
They have rare books, general circulating books, and somewhere in the middle,
There are these books that are becoming aged, fragile, and so they don't allow them to circulate, but they do segregate them.
And they will allow students to look at them there, but a decision will be made on an individual basis if they'll allow them to go through the Xerox copier, for instance.
So they actually have designated a classification for them.
How do you feel, though?
I mean, do you have a personal feeling about the printed book, vis-a-vis, the computerized book, the virtual library?
Would it bother you if I told you there was a new college established in the United States that didn't even have a library in the plans, in the architecture?
It was a computer center, that books weren't part of the equation?
And they aren't even calling these buildings libraries anymore.
They're calling them resource centers.
What's your attitude on that kind of bit?
Well, I'm an excellent bit.
Whatever.
I mean, the great thing is that all this computerization and mechanization of information is a good servant with a bad master.
And I think one's got to think very clearly about it.
My recipe is never buy any computer equipment, because it will be out of date in three years.
And you mean, oh, you mean specifically at a university library.
So don't buy it at all.
See, I don't.
No, it's not a serious solution.
But people must keep their head about computerization and be absolutely clear what they want.
And then use computerization as one way of getting it.
If it's better, if people think it's better to have the physical book, then they should be able to do it.
What is your attitude on the physical book?
very much so.
I mean, to me it's almost a holy object because it's essentially a registration of the experience of past generations.
And you don't think that in a similar vein that the computer would be able to
to perform that function.
And of course, there are also technical problems.
Major technical problems.
Yes, I mean, you may suddenly find that you lost all your books because of the power source.
Well, it does happen when you go into a library and they say computers are down today.
Yes, that's right.
The computers are done.
You can't access for an hour, an hour and a half.
So for 90 minutes, these books effectively don't exist.
It needs very clear thinking.
One mustn't be taken in by the computer sellers whose interest it is to sell you.
And we do know that paper lasts.
We have history to show that books can last for several hundred years.
And if it doesn't last, then there can be a week of years.
That's right.
But for computer technology, 30, 40, 50 years.
And they have gone through several generations where
material that has been stored on one system is inaccessible by today's machines.
Take the card, the punched cards.
Cornell has millions of these cards.
They can't access the information in the cards because they no longer have the machines there.
So what good is the information?
No, I think in general, small is beautiful.
But I agree that the problem of the great copyright
It is the most serious one.
And the handling of very large number of units, you see, probably has got no choice.
It's going to use mechanical means of control.
And so, where is Bodley deposited in New Orleans?
You said a mile and a half of shelving per year, if necessary?
Yeah.
Well, out in the country about ten miles out, Newnham-Courtney, they've got, I think they've built a second one now.
And this is where?
Newnham-Courtney.
How do we spell Newnham?
C-N-E-W-N-H-A-M-Courtney, C-O-U-R-T-N-E-Y.
That's where the depository is.
Yes.
They built, I think, two units, and they're now starting on the back.
Library of Congress, of course, is going from the Jefferson Building to the Madison Building to the Adams Building, and now they're going to go out for a place out in Maryland, I guess.
It's a great problem, but they've got to keep their heads and not to be swung by.
I don't know, I don't think that they actually did that.
Were there any similar considerations here?
No, unfortunately.
I'm not sure what happened, particularly about the manuscripts, whether they were moved.
But I know the printed books were not moved, and in an incendiary debate, a very large number and a quarter of a million volumes were lost.
Yes, a British language.
And unfortunately, they included
periodical section in which the letter R was much effective and that all of Ruska and Ruska, Ruska, Ruska, Slava, all destroyed.
That was in fact one of the reasons why I was appointed here to try and get them for Oxford so that at least there was one copy in this country before the war they almost certainly had the only copy.
And did you find any of that?
This is material that you went to Eastern Europe.
I exchanged volume for volume, Russian periodicals for English people.
And you developed the desiderata yourself?
Oh yes.
I produced 150 desiderata lists.
And of course this comes from your own knowledge and expertise in the field.
And what do you look for when you try?
You used the phrase earlier in the interview, retrospectively strengthen a collection.
I like that phrase.
Well, it's essentially identifying the caps.
How do you do that?
In my case, I knew the literature doing well.
And if you want to do it mechanically, you get
outstanding monographs in different fields and you go through their full notes and see the sources that they are quoting and you can build up from that pretty good news I mean I think certainly over 10 years I got nearly 10,000 projects from Russia
Europe and pretty good stuff.
And of course I had the job of looking at similar material.
I think I said four complete sets of countries.
They're about 250 volumes each.
Very rightly wanted as raw materials for social history.
Do you find now that you get scholars coming here from Eastern Europe to study their own history and culture?
Yes, a lot.
Well, of course, most of them come to study emigre subjects because they haven't got material in Russia because they either didn't collect it or it was prescribed.
And although I think that the system of special collections, what they call spitzkraming,
has now gone.
They are now open.
They weren't getting a lot of emigranity, and there's a proliferation of Russians.
We've had a lot here, and we'll have them in America.
People are studying the culture of the emigration, which is, of course, not without interest, because the emigration included a lot of number of outstanding scholars and thinkers.
You were here...
to observe the immediate post-war activities, where apparently books, manuscripts, were treated as hard currency.
I mean, there was a movement of material in North America, because in Eastern Europe, even here, they were able to come in and buy huge volumes of books.
Do you have a comment on that?
I mean, is this something that you observe?
Is this something that you observe happening now in Russia and in Eastern European countries?
I just don't know about now.
I mean, the great time, of course, was after the first one, when Archibald Coolidge went, Harry Leidenberg from New York Public Library went.
I think
Jan Malinsky was head of the Slomonic section of the New York Public Library.
He went to Lithuania and bought an extremely important collection of Russian books, simply for dollars, presumably.
But Abe Kassinac has written on this.
He has.
Exactly, and I have some of his articles.
They're very interesting.
But after the... I never bought, I think.
Well, I bought in shops, stuff, but I never bought from libraries.
We always exchanged libraries.
They were keener to get Western publications than to get money.
They had bags of Russian money.
Now, of course, they've pretty well nothing.
Yeah, and now the problem over there, of course, is theft.
Yeah.
And then apparently the condition of materials is deplorable, and that's really frightening.
Folks who just don't enjoy a high priority, apparently.
I was at a dinner at the New York Public Library with Paul McClergate for Zaitsev.
And of course, he was there now.
He's an old-time bureaucrat, government person.
really trying to find ways to raise money.
He's in the uncommon position of figuring out how to get... Well, you see, there's no estate money, you see, because nobody pays their taxes.
And the situation with the staffs is affording.
They're not paid.
They're months behind.
How would you, from what you've heard, judge the state of the book?
culture apparatus in Russia and Eastern Europe now, where they are, they have such a low priority where people aren't being paid, where books aren't being taken care of, never mind buying new things, but just taking care of what they have.
Well, they do what they can.
You see, they've still got very dedicated people, but they haven't got the means.
And, of course, it does vary from country to country.
You can't generalize anything.
in Czechoslovakia and Poland, the situation is probably very difficult.
Russia has got an economy which they're attempting to stand on its head.
It was never the case with Poland and Czechoslovakia.
Communism was not so well dug in.
And they were able to make the transition a little bit more gracefully, I guess.
And early in this new book, I'm also hoping to, in a narrative form, discuss wonderful libraries through history, but the significance of each one along the way.
And generally, you mentioned, say, Gaul in Switzerland.
We had this great monastic scriptorium.
I'm going to look to Durham Library in this book.
a great example of a cathedral library that survived the... Well, Hereford, of course.
And Hereford, of course, out in the West survived.
And they still have an active chain library, as I understand.
Could you recommend any libraries, or can you think of any libraries that you would particularly recommend that we... Because it might be not only beautiful to describe... Well, if you're going to Eastern Europe, you must
I mean, it's fairly simple.
You must certainly visit national libraries because all of them have got the remains of centralized policy.
I mean, the national library will know what's going on because that was part of the old setup.
And they're rare book departments.
Other people want to tackle the making.
give you the lowdown, you'll be English speakers, I imagine.
In Prague, for example, there's marvelous libraries, 16th century libraries.
In Poland, at Gornik, again, wonderful libraries.
Yugoslavia, I don't know what's happened there, but anyway,
extremely difficult.
But again, you go to the national libraries and tell them what you're interested in.
They will tell you what's going on.
Yeah.
Do you think of anything?
This has really been wonderful.
But I won't bother you with the Russian literature.
But for the literature of the history of libraries, there's an annual bibliography.
Annual bibliography of the history of the book.
No, general.
Really?
Yeah.
It's published in English?
No, it's published in English.
That's a UK publication?
I think it's published in Holland.
And it's called a bibliography?
Annual bibliography of the history of the book.
There are about 20 volumes so far.
The last volume, I suppose, rather behind is probably about 19, covering 1995.
But it has a section, you see, on libraries, history of libraries.
which includes, by and large, the literature.
That's the thing you really want to get hold of, and you'll get references.
For Russia, there's an annual bibliography, but it's in Russian, and it's in a publication called Kniga, A-N-I-G-A.
One thing that Edward mentioned, which you might be able to comment authoritatively on,
that during the Soviet period he said that the practice was, and the phrase he used, to bring to the center the treasures from many of the various republics and nationalities, to attempt to make a national, a Soviet kind of a library, a history, a repository of all these different cultures and nationalities throughout the Soviet Union.
And you said, for instance, now with the dissolution of the Union, you find, for instance, a lot of Ukrainian treasures remain in Moscow or St.
Petersburg, and that maybe they're attempting now to get these things back.
Are you familiar with this sort of practice?
Well, certainly, Ukrainians would be very anxious to get any stuff from Russia.
I mean, there's no love lost.
The Ukrainians are not cheery about the importance of their own cultural heritage.
But centralization.
What's relevant, I think, is the bibliographical control in Russia by the all-Union book chamber that was
and that was responsible for recording week by week publication of books and periodicals and articles in journals and that covered the whole of the Soviet Union until its breakup and it still exists but of course is now reduced to Russia and the other states are responsible for their own
geographical control.
And they were during the Soviet period, or they are now?
Yes, it was a duplicated business.
So they probably didn't lose as much as... No, no.
I don't know whether there's anything recent in English on that, but I bought for you to see this journal.
Have you come across that?
No, let me just write it down.
Oh, that
Oh, wow.
I should be able to find this in New York.
Oh, yes, it's there.
I think Ed is one of the... Okay, we'll keep going.
S-O-L... A-N-U-S.
It's published in London, volume 1 to 10.
That will be 1987 onwards.
It comes out each year.
And you want to go through the whole of the set.
International journal for Russian and East European.
They'll know it in New York.
But you see here this sort of thing.
Oh, that's absolutely essential.
Which one is this?
This is volume 10.
This is the last one.
Yeah, that article in particular.
I just learned that during that period when there was no Poland, that the National Library was in Paris.
That's very interesting.
And, of course, there's a very good Polish library in London.
Really?
Yes, you ought to go and see them.
I've forgotten.
I don't know if there was nothing.
It used to be.
a man called Jakub Borbic, who was a librarian, simply at the Polish Library in London.
And they maintained the bibliography of the Polish emigre material from 1939.
I'm going to give you my card.
Do you mind if I give you a call at some point after I have a chance to transcribe this tape?
And that usually I think is the better way to...
go over my material and then maybe ask a few more detailed questions about giving us an hour.
Well, I haven't exhausted you, I have.
Really, I'm delighted we were able to do this.
It's wonderful insights.
because there's a lot of material.
Yeah, and it'll be a nice companion to my earlier work.
Yes, but I think if you do get in touch with these emigre libraries that still exist, I mean, there's a Ukrainian one in New York, and the Lithuanian one, and the Lithuanian one, those are the
where you'll find people who really know the form, because they will be librarians and they will be natives of those countries.
And they will be able to talk about preserving their culture, not only through the book, but by taking the book out.
They'll talk to you about that.
And you're fortunate, you see, because you'll have representatives of every immigrant,
community actually in New York.
Yeah, they all went to New York.
Yeah.
I did this with Dr. Gregorian, bartender Gregorian, and he's going back to New York now to head up the Carnegie Corporation.
Oh, yeah.
And he said, you must come again to New York.
He said, everything and everybody is there.
It is quite literally the site of the United Nations.
Good.
Now, I'll give you this.
a little thing on the history of the college.
Oh, wonderful.
And also on the library, a little thing there.
Now, what are you going to do for the rest of the day?
Oh, we're going to walk around, maybe go to Bodley.
Yeah, go to Bodley.
They have tours, by the way.
It's worth doing.
And if you want to do a tour, there is a coach tour of Oxford.
which you can pick up anywhere on it.
It'll last about an hour and a half, I think.
I think, really, we're going to go through Bodley and maybe go back to London.
Yes.
Okay.
See if we can get another interview down there this afternoon.
That's very kind of you, Doctor.
No, not at all.
It's so kind of you to come in and see us at such short notice.
Yes.
Udin was a very rich Siberian
who owned an alcohol monopoly and collected books on a grand scale.
And after his death, they were offered to the Russian Academy of Sciences.
They were in Siberia, in Khabarovsk.
And the Academy turned it down.
And at the Library of Congress at that time,
was a very lively Russian Liberian, and he arranged for purchase for the Library of Congress, where they are now.
And it's an extremely important collection.
I gave a talk at the Library of Congress.
Remember there was a gentleman who stood up in the back and said, this, he told me that same precise, I think it was like seven boxcars of material.
Yes, that's right.
And it is, remains a valued collection at the library.
I have information on it.
It wasn't, I may say, catalogued for many years, but now it's all catalogued.
He collected all the 19th century government reports, you see, Russian government reports, and very often the Library of Congress has unique copies outside Russia.